# Vault Usage

This note attempts to help establish a mental model for thinking about how to use this vault.

The vault primarily revolves around [Periodic Notes](Periodic%20Notes.md), [Project Notes](Project%20Notes.md), and [Resource Notes](Resource%20Notes.md).

Each day it is recommended to start by creating that days [Daily Note](Periodic%20Notes.md) (`ctrl+h`).[^4] This note becomes your home page for the day. Anytime you need to jot something down use this note to do that. You can always re-organize the information later. Another way to create Daily Notes is by using the [Calendar](../plugins/plugins/Calendar%20Plugin.md)[^1] or the Command Palette (`ctrl + p`).

The [Daily Note](Periodic%20Notes.md) provides a handful of dynamic views to help surface **Active Projects**, **Outstanding Todos**, and the current days **Meetings**. These views are generated by querying properties on note files across the vault. For this reason, its best to use the provided templates[^5] for most [Note Type](Note%20Types.md) creation to ensure the correct properties are applied.

During a day you will likely work on [Projects](Project%20Notes.md) and have [Meetings](Meeting%20Notes.md).

Active projects are saved in the `010 projects` folder for streamlined access. To create a new Project simply using the [new project note template](Project%20Notes.md#✨%20Creating%20a%20New%20Project%20Note). To quickly jump to an existing [Project Note](Project%20Notes.md) you can use the `Go To` command (`ctrl+t`) and type the name of the Project.

Like the [Daily Note](Periodic%20Notes.md), [Project Notes](Project%20Notes.md) provide a few dynamic views to help you keep track of **Outstanding Todos** and **Related Meetings.** They also have a [Log Section](Log%20Sections.md) which lets you easily keep track of updates to that Project. Throughout the vault, the [Log Section](Log%20Sections.md) can be used to keep track of important updates and associate those back to the dated [Daily Note](Periodic%20Notes.md).

Each day, its helpful to create placeholder [Meeting Notes](Meeting%20Notes.md) up front for that day's scheduled meetings. Use the [meeting note template](Meeting%20Notes.md#✨Creating%20A%20New%20Generic%20Meeting) to create these. If a meeting is associated with a Project, then you can add links to the relevant [Project Notes](Project%20Notes.md) in the Meeting properties.

As you work on Projects or other tasks you may discover new information that is worth documenting, this atomic information can be captured in [Resource Notes](Resource%20Notes.md). These notes all live in `030 resources` and are the backbone of building up your own personal wikipedia of knowledge.

## To Sum This All Up:

1. [Periodic Notes](Periodic%20Notes.md) (like the Daily Note) help anchor time
2. [Project Notes](Project%20Notes.md) help you track projects or tasks with a completion goal
3. [Resource Notes](Resource%20Notes.md) help you document and build up long term knowledge

By linking information together across these core notes you will begin to build your own knowledge graph[^2] where each piece of information links in some way back to other relevant items, whether they be Projects or Meetings or just nuggets of information.

## Next Steps

1. [Setup Plugins](../plugins/Vault%20Plugins.md#Initial%20Setup)
2. [Setup Style](../style/Vault%20Style.md#Initial%20Setup)
3. Create folde `050 gitignore/journal`
4. Use `ctrl+h` to launch the current Daily Note
5. Learn about different [Note Types](Note%20Types.md).
6. Checkout the [Vault Specification](000%20Vault%20Specification.md) for a deeper dive on anything related to vault management

> [!tip]
> If at anytime you get lost, look for the [Help Module](../vault%20views/UI%20Modules/Help%20Module/Help.md) pinned to the lower left of the screen[^3]

# ## Footnotes

[^4]: The Daily Note is a type of [Periodic Note](Periodic%20Notes.md)
[^1]: Should be upper right of your current view
[^5]: Use `ctrl+shft+n` to launch the Quick Add wizard which will help you pick a template for your new note
[^2]: See bottom right hand graph module. If its not showing then use the Command Palette to open either the Graph View or the Local Graph view. 🔥Any view (note, tab, whatever) can be dragged and dropped to any place on the UI.
[^3]: This is a custom note ([Help](../vault%20views/UI%20Modules/Help%20Module/Help.md)), so if you do not see the module, then simply open the note, then drag and drop it to the lower right hand corner (or wherever you want it).
